Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are
about to be blessed by the teaching
ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to
be an enlightening time in God's word,
renewing your mind and transforming your
life to fulfill God's purpose. We pray
for you that you are established in all
the truths of God's word taught today.
Let's get right into it.
>> Welcome back to the Pllearos podcast.
This is your daily dose of God's word
transforming you to fulfill God's
purpose for your life. And we're looking
at a very important subject matter,
healing in the newness of life. We're
winding now. We're getting towards the
last phase of the teaching. And remember
what we started from is seeing how do we
fulfill God's purpose. It takes growth
in our mind, in our hidden man, our
inner man to fulfill God's purpose,
right? And with that in mind, we then
saw what we need to grow in. We need to
grow in the newness of life or in the
new creation new man. Something Paul
said a lot in Ephesians 4 11-16 plus the
rest of the place from 17 to 24 when we
are growing in the unity of the faith.
The focus is on the no man or the
newness of life. So we took time out to
study what the newness of life is about.
It's the life God intended for us from
the start. The life that will be fully
affected at the end. And we need to
understand how much of that life or how
far what is in that life is available to
us today. And we've set the boundaries
of that. We said everything in that life
except immortality in our body and
incorruption of matter is available to
us today. So the effect of that life on
our spirit is available to us. The
degree of that life relative to our body
which is healing what we are studying is
available to us. Then there's a degree
of that life that is available relative
to matter for our benefit. What we're
going to study next that we should also
be aware of and we should know how to
walk in it. We're going to walk in God's
purpose. We are going to learn to walk
in the newness of life. And we said
healing is available in the newness of
life relative to our body. And one way
to understand that is to see how
immortality will be affected in our
bodies at the end which is by the
spirit. And then ask the question what
is available in the spirit for our body
today. And from the ministry of the Lord
Jesus as well as the apostles, we can
tell that healing is available in the
spirit, in the newness of life, in
redemption, in the gospel to our bodies
today. So healing is available to you.
Is available to you today. Is available
to you by redemption is available in the
newness of life you are in. It's
available in the spirit that's in you.
Healing is available to you today. Now
with that said, we had to take a pause
and examine natural healing because we
are clearly talking about healing by the
power of God which is supernatural
healing. And we saw that natural healing
must be fully and wholly embraced. There
is nothing in God's word that wants us
to have a disposition towards natural
healing that is negative. It can be
damaging to think that way. You can
think wholesomely where you are
accepting of natural healing as well as
receptive of supernatural healing and
then grow in your walk in supernatural
healing not walking in fully presumption
etc. Um natural healing should be
embraced because God is the one who has
made available the cosmos and has put it
under the management of man for good.
With that in mind, it brings us to why
then do we need supernatural healing?
And we mentioned three reasons.
Supernatural healing should be a defense
against sickness and disease. Exodus
15:26. Supernatural healing should be an
active response. And you can say is a
joint response when there is sickness
and disease. So you should be a defense
there such that there shouldn't
ordinarily be sickness and disease in
our bodies but it's also to serve as an
active response in a joint response when
there is a situation where there is
sickness or disease. And lastly in some
situations and this is why it's so
critical. It might be the only option.
It might be the only saving option
available on the table. It's so
important that we are aware of that. Now
with that framework laid down the next
question is all right fine. I mean I
think you have done a good job of
presenting a very if you think so good
case for healing and not something that
is out of you could say that is out of
balance or that is unwome it has been
presented as the word of god presents it
now the question is so how then do I
partake in this healing remember we said
redemption made healing available but
did not effect healing so for example
redemption has affected our new nature
we don't do anything toffect ffect the
new nature we have but we have to walk
in that nature and walk in that
character. People's characters do not
automatically change in their walk.
There might be very few exceptions but
it's not automatically what happens.
People's character do not automatically
change in their walk. It rather changes
by their growth. It changes by their
choosing to walk by faith for their
character. It's the same way redemption
has not affected healing has made it
available in the spirit in the newness
of life that we have. How do we effect
healing? And we said overwhelmingly by
reading God's word, we are left with
zero doubt that healing is affected by
faith. There might be some want to now
debate even what that faith is and how
that faith is. And that will be the last
phase. So that's why I said we're
getting to the last phase. We'll kind of
kickstart a little bit on that today.
But in the few more episodes, we're
going to tie that and then we'll be done
with this. But how is healing affected
today? How is healing affected today? I
want you to notice, we've seen already,
we started looking at it from Paul, Acts
14 and verse 9. He was preaching the
gospel and he saw someone that the
person had faith to be healed and then
he ministered to the person or he spoke
a word and the person was healed. Then
we saw an example of that with the Lord
Jesus where he saw the faith of some
people in Mark 9 and two. Then we took
it a step backward. We saw the
centurion. He said, "I have not seen
such great faith in Israel." Matthew 8
and 10 and verse 13 says as you have
believed so be it unto you. Then we came
back to Matthew 9:22 again the woman who
had the issue of blood he told her that
your faith has made you whole. Matthew
9:29, according to your faith, talking
to the I think blind Batmus or two blind
people. He said, according to your
faith, be it unto you. The sirenian
woman, he said, woman, great is your
faith as you have believed, as you have
desired, he said to her, he told her to
receive. So, consistently we see him
addressing the recipient's faith or the
third party faith. So, we saw third
party faith in Matthew 9 and2, the
recipient's faith in Matthew 8 9:15. But
in Matthew 17 and in verse 20, the Lord
addressed the minister's faith. So this
was a this is a very interesting case.
And so that's where we're going to start
where it seemed like the recipient was
admitting that let me be honest with
you. I don't think I'm all there. I'm
not even sure I like really believe but
like you know I'm just here whatever is
going to happen. So I'm going to read
the account Mark 17 and from verse 14.
And when they had come to the multitude,
a man came to him, kneeling down to him
and saying, Lord, have mercy on my son,
for he is an epileptic and suffers
severely. For he often falls into the
fire and often into the water. So I
brought him to your disciples, but they
could not cure him. And then Jesus
answered and said, "Oh faithless and
perverse generation, how long shall I be
with you? How long shall I bear with
you? Bring him here to me." And I hope
you know when he says, "Oh faithless and
perverse generation," he was speaking to
his disciples. He was telling them that
you couldn't get it done. You are
faithless and perverse. That's an
indictment on the minister's faith. So
we have to be careful when we like to
turn it on just the recipient or top
parties. We would see the need to take
responsibility. And Jesus rebuked the
demon and it came out of him and the
child was cured from that hour. Nothing
really has changed about the recipient
or the third parties. The thing that
changed there was the minister. And the
disciples came to Jesus privately and
said, "Why could we not cast it out?"
And Jesus said, "Because of your
unbelief." Wow. So again, he's
addressing the minister's faith. For
assuredly I say to you, you have faith
as a mustard seed. You will say to this
mountain, move from here to there and it
will move and nothing will be impossible
for you. However, this kind does not go
out but by prayer and fasting. of which
there's a very good argument that that
kind is their faith and not the demon
because they are all subject to the name
of Jesus and if you say okay the
difficulty of the particular demon case
and your faith is weak you are still
going to come back to the same
conclusion that the issue is really
their faith this account is such an
important one that I want us to read
Mark's accounts on it so Mark 9 so Jesus
rebuked the minister's faith there we
have seen several instance of the lord
commending the recipient's faith and
even the third party faith In Mark
chapter 9, did you notice again that the
me factory rebukes them is to show that
these cases are not are not a matter of
God's own discretion. It's presenting
the case as already settled. And this is
something we'll come back to when we are
looking at the last phase which is
actually walking in it. We have seen how
affected faith and look at how to
actually walk in it. We're going to come
back again and again that healing is
always presented as set. So Jesus gave
them power and authority to cast out
demon to heal the sick freely and
receive freely gift. Right? So that's
the attitude we are giving about
healing, supernatural healing. Mark
chapter 9, this time around I read from
verse 15. So immediately when they saw
him talking about the Lord, the people
were greatly amazed and ran to him and
greeted him. And he asked the scribes,
"What are you discussing with them?"
Then one of the crowd answered and said,
"Teacher, I brought you my son who has a
mute spirit. And wherever he wherever he
sees him, he throws him down. He foams
at the mouth, gashes his teeth, and
becomes rigid. So I spoke to your
disciples that they should cast it out
but they could not. And he answered him
and said, "Oh faithless generation, how
long shall I be with you? How long shall
I bear with you? Bring him to me." He
rebukes the disciples. And just to show
you how it goes, he's going to rebuke
the recipient as well. In this case, you
can argue it's the third party because
it's the father. And then they brought
him to him. And when he saw him,
immediately the spirit convulsed him and
he fell to the ground and wallowed
foaming at the mouth. He asked his
father, saying, "How long has this been
happening to him?" He said, "From
childhood." And he often throws him both
into the fire and into the water to
destroy him. But if you can do anything,
have compassion and help us. And Jesus
said to him, "If you believe," now you
see he's turning it to the person. He
said, "If you believe, all things are
possible to him who believes." And
immediately the father of the child
cried out and said, "Lord, I believe.
Help my unbelief." So, it's kind of
weird. It doesn't seem like faith is
really doing anything much here. And the
Lord saw the people running together. He
rebuked the unclean spirit and said,
"Death and dumb spirit, I command you.
Come out of him and enter him no more."
And the spirit cried out, convulsed him
greatly and came out of him. And he
became as one dead so that many said,
"He's dead." But Jesus took him by hand
and lifted him, and he arose. And when
he had come to the house, his disciples
asked him privately, why could we not
cast him out? said this kind can come
out by nothing but prayer and fasting.
Don't forget about I've seen Matthew's
account he was talking about their faith
or that unbelief anyone you want to go
with. Okay. So with this said we are
seeing that there's the minister's faith
there's the recipient's faith also
there's a place for the third party
people that are around faith like in
Mark chapter 9 and to the friends of
that man. Now we can move from the Lord
Jesus and then look at the book of Acts.
And there are really just two major
accounts that would help us understand
how healing is affected here. The first
is Acts 3 and the second is Acts 14
which we have already seen. So I'm going
to focus on Acts chapter 3. This is one
instance yet again that seems to just be
the minister's faith at play. So in Acts
chapter 3, we look at this instance and
he said, let's just read from verse one.
Peter and John went up together to the
temple at the hour of prayer at the
night hour. And a certain man lame from
his mother's womb was carried whom they
laid daily at the gate of the temple
that was called beautiful to ask arms
from those who entered the temple who
seen Peter and John about to go into the
temple asked for arms and fixing his
eyes on him with John Peter said look at
us and he gave them his attention
expecting to receive something from them
but there's no big deal to that. is
expecting to receive something natural.
All right. And Peter says, "Silver and
gold I do not have, but what I have, I
give to you. In the name of the Lord
Jesus Christ, rise up and walk." And he
took him by the right hand and lifted
him up and immediately his feet and
ankle bones receive strength. When they
asked Peter what was going on, you could
read it later in verse 16. And he said,
"And his name." So he said, "This
happened by the name of of the Lord
through faith in his name." And the
faith here could not have been the
person at the beautiful gate. He didn't
even care about the Lord Jesus. Probably
I'm not sure he knew him even though the
Lord must have been at that temple. So
there's all kinds of argument around it.
But through faith in his name has made
this man strong. So he's talking about
the minister's faith here. It says whom
you see and know. Yes, the faith which
comes through him talking about the
faith that comes through what Christ has
done. Redemption has given him perfect
soundness in the presence of you all.
When we understand that Jesus has
defeated sin and death and life is now a
right, there's a faith that comes
through that that comes through Christ
and the work he has done. And he says is
by that that I gave the command. He has
a right to be healed and he's healed.
And this is something Peter knew about
since since Matthew 10, Luke 9, Jesus
had given them authority and power. They
knew that being the redeemer in his name
people can be set free from the effects
of sin and death that are that can be
addressed in this particular age and
that includes sickness and disease. What
I just want to point out is without a
doubt and overwhelmingly so within the
scriptures healing is available in the
newness of life in the spirit by
redemption but it is affected by faith
and it could be affected by the
recipient's faith like the woman who had
the issue of blood that simply touched
Jesus's garment without him knowing that
she got healed. It could be affected by
third party faith that brought people to
Jesus. I'll show us some other examples
of that probably in the next episode.
But also it could be affected by the
minister's fate. For most of the
instances, it seems that there were a
couple of it didn't matter who was what,
but faith was at play. And that's how we
must think about it as we proceed. How
do we walk in faith for realing? We're
going to look at that next. And we're
going to explain something very
important. Faith is not an order God set
up. Faith is actually his design in this
world. When you appreciate that, you
stop thinking it's an ord that is
mounted against your healing and you see
it as just the receiving process that
you need to engage. And we'll see that
from the next episode. Thank you. God
bless you. Fulfill God's purpose and be
healed. Amen.
>> We trust you are blessed by today's
episode. Do stay in faith about all
you've heard to walk in it. To learn
more of God's word, visit pleose.org.
You will find answers to your questions
on the gospel. God, his purpose, and how
to fulfill it. Whilst on our website,
don't forget to join the Plurose
community channel on WhatsApp and follow
us on all our social media handles at
Plurose_hog.
For now, stay blessed and keep walking
in his purpose.